<!--
.. title: wxPython Downloads
.. slug: downloads
.. date: 2017-07-14 21:11:22 UTC
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
-->

## Current Release

Starting with wxPython 4.0 (the first Phoenix release) the wxPython source
archive and, for supported platforms, wxPython binary wheels are available
from the Python Package Index (PyPI). wxPython's project page at PyPI is
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wxPython>.

The source or binary wheels can be downloaded directly from the project
page, or you can use the wonderful [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/)
tool to do it for you.  Just run something like this from a command-line:

```
pip install -U wxPython
```

If you are on a supported platform with a compatible Python build, then
that command will download the appropriate wheel file from the latest
release, and install it in your Python environment, or active Python
virtual environment for you.

If there is no binary wheel file available for your platform or Python,
then pip will download the source archive and will attempt to build it for
you.

### Building with Pip

wxPython is a very large and complex package, with several dependencies,
and in many cases is not very easy to build. Since pip will be using the
source tarball then all of the source files that are generated by other
tools is included, eliminating much of the build complexity. However there
are still library and tools dependencies that need to be present on the
system while doing the build.  The best place to find out about these
dependencies is the
[README.rst](https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix/blob/master/README.rst)
file in the source tree. You should familiarize yourself with the whole
file, but pay particular attention to the 
[prerequisites](https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix/blob/master/README.rst#prerequisites) 
section.


### Extra Files

In addition to the source and binaries available on PyPI there are some
extra files which are part of each release, which are hosted at the
[wxPython project onSourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/wxpython/files/wxPython4/). 
The things you will find there are:

* A tarball containing the [wxPython API documentation](https://docs.wxpython.org) which you can use for off-line reading of the API reference material.

* A tarball containing the wxPython demo and samples.

* Zip files with `*.pdb` files which are Visual Studio debugger information files. 

* Binary wheel files for a few flavors of Linux. 


### Yes, we have Linux Wheels. Sort of.

Because of the differences between distributions (mainly different versions
of the core libraries installed by default, and etc.) it is not possible to
host binary wheel files for Linux on PyPI unless they can be made to work
within the constraints of [PEP
513](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0513/) Unfortunately, attempts to
pound the wxPython peg into the `manylinux1` hole have not been very
successful. Maybe `manylinux2` will be a better fit. In the meantime if you
have a Linux similar enough to those used to build the wheels located on
SourceForge then you can use them and not need to build the wheels
yourself.  

Unfortunately the way that SourceForge handles its download links is not
compatible with how pip searches for files to download. But if you download
the wheel file you need, then you can then use pip to install it.




## The Bleeding Edge

If you're the daredevil type and prefer to work with the absolutely newest
version of wxPython, we've got a couple options for you.

### Snapshot Builds

Each day that there are commits to wxPython Phoenix's master branch, the
[buildbot](http://buildbot.wxpython.org/) will attempt to do a "daily
build". If successful then the resulting wheels, docs, and source archives
will be uploaded to the [snapshots folder](https://wxpython.org/Phoenix
/snapshot-builds/). Although these are not technically official releases,
and may have new undiscovered and unsolved bugs, more than a few people use
them successfully in their own projects.

### GitHub

wxPython's GitHub project is at <https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix>. If
you want to tinker with the code (preferably in order to submit a
[PR](https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix/pulls)) then this option is what
you are looking for. Fork and clone a copy of the git repository for
yourself and start tweaking away under the hood.

Since the generated files are not committed to git you will need to go
through several more steps to generate and build the code, but they are all
handled by the
[`build.py`](https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix/blob/master/build.py)
script and there is a overview of the process and needed steps in the
[README](https://github.com/wxWidgets/Phoenix/blob/master/README.rst). If
you get stuck then you can ask about it on 
[wxPython-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wxpython-dev).



## Old Releases

The wxPython releases prior to 4.0 (a.k.a "Classic" wxPython) will remain
available at
[SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/wxpython/files/wxPython/).
That includes source, documentation, the demo, and various binary
installers for Windows and Mac systems.

